# 18. Explain `macrotask` and `microtask`

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/question/Explain-macrotask-and-microtask%60

#

### Problem Description

In case you are not sure, please read about Event loop first.

#

### Solution

https://javascript.info/event-loop

Event Loop:

Browser JavaScript execution flow, as well as in Node.js, is based on an event loop.

The event loop concept is very simple. There’s an endless loop, where the JavaScript engine waits for tasks, executes them and then sleeps, waiting for more tasks.

The general algorithm of the engine:

1. While there are tasks:
   execute them, starting with the oldest task.

2. Sleep until a task appears, then go to 1.

That’s a formalization for what we see when browsing a page. The JavaScript engine does nothing most of the time, it only runs if a script/handler/event activates.

Examples of tasks:

1. When an external script <script src="..."> loads, the task is to execute it.
2. When a user moves their mouse, the task is to dispatch mousemove event and execute handlers.
3. When the time is due for a scheduled setTimeout, the task is to run its callback.
4. …and so on.

It may happen that a task comes while the engine is busy, then it’s enqueued.

The tasks form a queue, so-called “macrotask queue” (v8 term):

Two more details:

1. Rendering never happens while the engine executes a task. It doesn’t matter if the task takes a long time. Changes to the DOM are painted only after the task is complete.

2. If a task takes too long, the browser can’t do other tasks, such as processing user events. So after a time, it raises an alert like “Page Unresponsive”, suggesting killing the task with the whole page. That happens when there are a lot of complex calculations or a programming error leading to an infinite loop.

Macrotasks and Microtasks:

Along with macrotasks, described in this chapter, there are microtasks, mentioned in the chapter Microtasks.

https://javascript.info/microtask-queue

Microtasks come solely from our code. They are usually created by promises: an execution of .then/catch/finally handler becomes a microtask. Microtasks are used “under the cover” of await as well, as it’s another form of promise handling.

Microtasks Summary:

A more detailed event loop algorithm (though still simplified compared to the specification):

1. Dequeue and run the oldest task from the macrotask queue (e.g. “script”).
2. Execute all microtasks:
   While the microtask queue is not empty:
   Dequeue and run the oldest microtask.
3. Render changes if any.
4. If the macrotask queue is empty, wait till a macrotask appears.
5. Go to step 1.

https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#event-loop-processing-model
