# 19. What does header `Connection:Keep-Alive` do?

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/question/What-does-header-Connection-Keep-Alive-do

#

### Problem Description

You need to talk about how keep-alive help with performance in http/1.1.

And it is a shining point to mention multiplexing in http/2

#

### Solution

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Keep-Alive

The Keep-Alive general header allows the sender to hint about how the connection may be used to set a timeout and a maximum amount of requests.

- timeout: An integer that is the time in seconds that the host will allow an idle connection to remain open before it is closed. A connection is idle if no data is sent or received by a host. A host may keep an idle connection open for longer than timeout seconds, but the host should attempt to retain a connection for at least timeout seconds.

- max: An integer that is the maximum number of requests that can be sent on this connection before closing it. Unless 0, this value is ignored for non-pipelined connections as another request will be sent in the next response. An HTTP pipeline can use it to limit the pipelining.

A response containing a Keep-Alive header:

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Connection: Keep-Alive
Content-Encoding: gzip
Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
Date: Thu, 11 Aug 2016 15:23:13 GMT
Keep-Alive: timeout=5, max=1000
Last-Modified: Mon, 25 Jul 2016 04:32:39 GMT
Server: Apache

(body)

https://cascadingmedia.com/insites/2015/03/http-2.html

http2 can use multiplexing, which means it can send several GET at the same time.

Multiplexing allows multiple request-response messages to be in flight over a single HTTP/2 connection, at the same time.

Keep-Alive general header allows sender to hind how connection may be used to set a timeout and maximum amount of requests multiplexing in http/2 allows multiple request-response messages to be in flight over a single http/2 conncection at the same time
