# 27. Explain Box Model

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/question/explain-Box-Model

#

### Problem Description

Well, it is about block/inline stuff, and margin/padding stuff.

Not easy to explain it clearly.

In case you forgot, this MDN page helps.

#

### Solution

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model

Everything in CSS has a box around it.

In CSS we broadly have two types of boxes — block boxes and inline boxes.

1. Block Box:

If a box has an outer display type of block, it will behave in the following ways:

- The box will break onto a new line.
- The box will extend in the inline direction to fill the space available in its container. In most cases this means that the box will become as wide as its container, filling up 100% of the space available.
- The width and height properties are respected.
- Padding, margin and border will cause other elements to be pushed away from the box
  Some HTML elements, such as <h1> and <p>, use block as their outer display type by default.

2. Inline Box:

If a box has an outer display type of inline, then:

- The box will not break onto a new line.
- The width and height properties will not apply.
- Vertical padding, margins, and borders will apply but will not cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.
- Horizontal padding, margins, and borders will apply and will cause other inline boxes to move away from the box.
  Some HTML elements, such as <a>, <span>, <em> and <strong> use inline as their outer display type by default.

The standard CSS box model
In the standard box model, if you give a box a width and a height attribute, this defines the width and height of the content box. Any padding and border is then added to that width and height to get the total size taken up by the box. This is shown in the image below.

If we assume that a box has the following CSS defining width, height, margin, border, and padding:

```css
.box {
  width: 350px;
  height: 150px;
  margin: 10px;
  padding: 25px;
  border: 5px solid black;
}
```

The actual space taken up by the box will be 410px wide (350 + 25 + 25 + 5 + 5) and 210px high (150 + 25 + 25 + 5 + 5).

Making up a block box in CSS we have the:

- Content box: The area where your content is displayed, which can be sized using properties like width and height.
- Padding box: The padding sits around the content as white space; its size can be controlled using padding and related properties.
- Border box: The border box wraps the content and any padding. Its size and style can be controlled using border and related properties.
- Margin box: The margin is the outermost layer, wrapping the content, padding, and border as whitespace between this box and other elements. Its size can be controlled using margin and related properties.
