# 31. What is the Pros and Cons of Node.js

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/question/What-is-the-Pros-and-Cons-of-Node.js

#

### Problem Description

It is hard to answer if you don't have enough developing experiences of Node.js and other languages.

I'd suggest you to remember the Pros and Cons from here

#

### Solution

https://www.voidcanvas.com/describing-node-js/

JavaScript has certain characteristics which makes it unique from the other dynamic languages. It has no concept of thread, but its model of concurrency is completely basing on events; i.e. it's an event driven programming language. The same thing makes node server different than other web servers. This article describes what Node.js is, and how it is different and can be one of the most popular and powerful servers in future.

Pros and Cons of Node.js
Pros:

1. Asynchronous event driven IO helps concurrent request handling.
2. Uses JavaScript, which is easy to learn.
3. Share the same piece of code with both server and client side.
4. npm, the Node packaged modules has already become huge, and still growing.
5. Active and vibrant community, with lots of code shared via github, etc.
6. You can stream big files.

Cons:

1.  Node.js doesn't provide scalability. One CPU is not going to be enough; the platform provides no ability to scale out to take advantage of the multiple cores commonly present in today's server-class hardware.
2.  Dealing with relational database is a pain if you are using Node.
3.  Every time using a callback end up with tons of nested callbacks.
4.  Without diving in depth of JavaScript if someone starts Node, he may face conceptual problem.
5.  Node.js is not suited for CPU-intensive tasks. It is suited for I/O stuff only (like web servers).
