# 33. Cookie vs localStorage vs sessionStorage

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/question/Cookie-vs-localStorage-vs-sessionStorage

#

### Problem Description

this article would save the day if you are not familiar.

Knowing Secure and httpOnly of cookie, and also the ITP of safari would be a shining point.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies

#

### Solution

An HTTP cookie (web cookie, browser cookie) is a small piece of data that a server sends to a user's web browser.

The browser may store the cookie and send it back to the same server with later requests.

Typically, an HTTP cookie is used to tell if two requests come from the same browser—keeping a user logged in, for example. It remembers stateful information for the stateless HTTP protocol.

Cookies are mainly used for three purposes:

1. Session management
   Logins, shopping carts, game scores, or anything else the server should remember

2. Personalization
   User preferences, themes, and other settings

3. Tracking
   Recording and analyzing user behavior

Cookies are sent with every request, so they can worsen performance (especially for mobile data connections).

Modern APIs for client storage are the Web Storage API (localStorage and sessionStorage) and IndexedDB.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Storage_API

The two mechanisms within Web Storage are as follows:

1. sessionStorage maintains a separate storage area for each given origin that's available for the duration of the page session (as long as the browser is open, including page reloads and restores)

   - Stores data only for a session, meaning that the data is stored until the browser (or tab) is closed.
   - Data is never transferred to the server.
   - Storage limit is larger than a cookie (at most 5MB).

2. localStorage does the same thing, but persists even when the browser is closed and reopened.

   - Stores data with no expiration date, and gets cleared only through JavaScript, or clearing the Browser cache / Locally Stored Data.
   - Storage limit is the maximum amongst the two.
